---
title: End of the Year Recap
subtitle: "2025"
date: 2025-12-20
description: "2025"
headerImage:
  src: "/portfolio/blog/dec-2025.jpg"
  alt: End of the Year Recap
---

Welcome to another retrospective. As you might have noticed, it's been a while since I last wrote one. The reason for this is simple: In the last few months I've been focusing on my studies, doing courses and tiny projects to test out what I learned. This lead to a situation where I didn't have much to write about beyond "I've been learning a lot". Now that the year is ending, however, it felt like a good time to recap all of the things I've been doing.

Moving forward, retrospectives will move away from the monthly format, and instead will come whenever I have something meaningful to write about.

Now, let's look at what I've been studying these past few months.

### Linux

Starting this period, I knew I wanted to get more into the Backend and DevOps side of things. My understanding of Linux didn't go beyond basic commands, and I felt it necessary to learn more about it.

To that end, I did a couple of online courses and practices, and gathered enough experience to feel comfortable dealing with common operations of Backend or DevOps developers.

### Go

With this goal of getting more into the Backend, I decided to really learn Go. I had already done a couple of projects with it, but I didn't quite understand how it worked under the hood. I went through the official documentation and their recommended resources, and I'm glad to say that I've learned a lot and am now comfortable with the language.

### API Design

Another aspect of Backend I wanted to learn more about was API design. I've designed quite a few APIs by now, but I never got a proper guide on how they should be structured. I followed Google's guidelines; a lot of it was common sense, but I still gained some valuable insights.

### Patterns

In a similar vein, I wanted to learn more about design patterns. This is something I felt would improve my code, from writing more efficient components, improving the structure of my codebases, and so on. In the end it was a mixed bag, since a lot of the patterns I learned have already been adopted and integrated by the frameworks I use, but I learned a lot of why things are the way they are.

### DevOps with Docker and Kubernetes

Onto the DevOps side of things. The University of Helsinki offers great courses online, many of which I had already taken. I started "DevOps with Docker" a long time ago but never finished it, so that was my first priority. It is a really complete and challenging course. I probably don't know all there is to know about Docker, but I feel comfortable writing somewhat complex Dockerfiles and managing containers.

After that, I started "DevOps with Kubernetes", the natural progression from the previous one. It was a bit more challenging for me, because I had never used Kubernetes before, but in the end I got quite comfortable with Kubernetes and everything surrounding it.

### AWS

Lastly, and still ongoing, I've been going through the AWS Developer Learning Plan. So far, I've learned about S3, DynamoDB, Lambda, API Gateway, and a lot of other things. There is a lot of filler content, so it has been a bit of a slog, but I am still learning a lot about AWS and its services.
